Chapter 05

# During Lecture Notes

● React File Structure (Official Doc Read)
● Easy to create React project, difficult to maintain
● Bad thing - so take time to refactor code time and again
● Create new file for component
● Functional component name and file name should be start with capital letter
● Two ways of exporting component
a) export default Component - We can export default only one component, we import import Component from './folder'. This is called default import.
b) export const Component - To export multiple components, we import in this way import {Component} from './folder'. 
This import is called named import. This is not object destructuring.
We can also use to import everything: import * as obj from './folder'
When you export by default, we can import it by renaming. Named exports cannot be renamed
● We have to create config file in our project. We keep hardcoded things in config file.
● React uses one way data binding in React.
● If we need to maintain a variable that changes itself, hardcoding doesnot work. React variable is kind of like a state varible.
Every component in React maintains a state so we can put some variables into the state. And every time, we need to create local variables
we use state inside react. We create variable using something known as useState hook. Local variable are created using useState() hook.
Hooks are nothing but like normal function.
One cannot directly modify variable directly. We modify using a function.
Our app becomes unpredictible if we get to update local variables directly. We will not know how value is changed in our file.
It will also impact optimization. 
useState Hook returns an array. Array has first item variable name and set function(set the value of variable);
onChange gets a function with event.

● Why do we need state variables?
Whenever a variable changes, something changed variable but React would not know that it needs to update DOM and change it into UI.
React has no idea what is happening to your variables. So, to update variables in sync with UI, we need to use state variables.
Change is re-rendered when changes encountered.

#Read about synthetic events.
Oneway and two way data binding

● Read React File Structure